The next version of JavaScript,
EcmaScript 2015, or EcmaScript 6 or
ES6, whatever you want to call it,
has a new concept coming.
And yet, it's just another way to create
objects, and to set the prototype.
Let's look at classes.
Classes in other programming languages
are extraordinarily popular.
They're a way of defining an object,
defining what its methods and
properties should be.
JavaScript doesn't have classes.
However, in the next version it will,
but in a different way.
So, what will a class look like?
A JavaScript class defines an object.
Just like we have done all along.
We have an constructor that acts
somewhat like the constructor
functions that we've seen in
that you can preset its values.
So when I create a new
person in this instance, for
example, and
I use the new key word to do this.
I can pass first name and last name,
and then this key word will be set
to that new instant that's being created,
that new object that's being created.
I can also have methods like
greet sitting inside the class.
And it's just available.
But here's the problem, people coming
from other programming languages,
when they see this class they think oh,
great.
This is just like what I'm use to.
The difference is that in
other programming languages,
class is not an object, it's just
a definition, it's like a template.
It tells you what objects
should look like.
But you don't actually get an object
until you use that new key word.
But JavaScript even though it's
adding the class key word,
still doesn't have classes in that sense.
Because this is an object in JavaScript.
This class person actually
is an object that's created.
And then you're creating new objects
from that object, and that's okay.
My fear though is that rather than
appreciating the differences and
the beauty of prototypal inheritance,
those who are coming from other
programming languages will simply see the
class key word and immediately begin to
design object structures the way
they do in C# or Java or C++.
I think that's a huge mistake.
And I also am weary about still
having to use the new key word.
It's still an attempt to appease
those coming form other languages.
And I personally aren't crazy about it.
However, it's one of those things.
It's in the language.
It's definitely better than
function constructors because
at least the language will be
able to say this is a class.
You have to use the new keyword so
the engine can stop you from
doing something really silly.
My hope is that if you are learning
JavaScript, if you're using JavaScript,
you'll stop just like this class
is trying to help you do, and
understand what's happening under the hood
and appreciate prototypal inheritance.
The simplicity of it as opposed to trying
to mimic some other programming language.
Oh, by the way,
how do you set the prototype, then?
Well, that's another new key word.
Let's say that I was creating an informal
person, or a person is my prototype,
I simply use the key word extends.
And that sets the prototype for
any of my objects created with this
class, essentially that __proto__
property at least in Chrome.
And in my constructor,
I can call the key word super.
Which simply we'll call the constructor
of the object that is my prototype.
So I can pass my initial
values down the chain.
And then I can override or
hide, just like I did.
With object.create.
Make sense?
This isn't completely ready yet.
The point of the recording
of this particular course.
But we will talk in a bit about how
you can use these features right now.
Even if your users
are using older browsers,
or that these concepts aren't even
ready at all in the current browsers.
But, for now, this is what's coming for
creating objects,
creating methods and properties on
objects, and setting their prototype.
It's just another syntactical way,
another way to type this.
Another approach but under the hood,
it's all still working the same.
In fact, if you read on the Internet
about classes, you'll often see for
classes in JavaScript a phrase
that it's just syntactic sugar.
Well Big Word Alert, syntactic
sugar is just when you have a different
way to type something into your code.
It doesn't change how it
actually works under the hood.
We've already seen that
function constructors,
object.create, are doing
the same thing ultimately.
Essentially class in
JavaScript is doing just that.
It's not changing anything about how
the JavaScript engine does things,
about how objects and
prototypes work under the hood.
It's just syntactic sugar.
Just giving you a different
way to type it in your code.
But when that code is executed,
what's generated by the JavaScript engine,
is still the same old thing.
It's still prototypal inheritance.